Gaming (#518)
solana-developers/solana-cookbook: docs/gaming/nfts-in-games.md

---

> title: NFTs in games

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Gaming with NFTs
```

head:
  - - meta
    - name: title

>       content: Solana Cookbook | NFTs in games

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Solana Cookbook | Gaming with NFTS
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:title

>       content: Solana Cookbook | NFTs in games

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Solana Cookbook | Gaming with NFTS
```

  - - meta
    - name: description

>       content: A list of options that should give you an idea of how NFTs can be utilized in games

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: NFTs can be a powerful tool in blockchain games. Learn how to utilize NFTs in Solana games to their full potential.
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:description

>       content: A list of options that should give you an idea of how NFTs can be utilized in games

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: NFTs can be a powerful tool in blockchain games. Learn how to utilize NFTs in Solana games to their full potential.
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:image
      content: https://solanacookbook.com/cookbook-sharing-card.png
  - - meta
    - name: og:image:alt
      content: Solana splash card
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: summary
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:site
      content: "@solanacookbook"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:image
      content: "https://solanacookbook.com/cookbook-sharing-card.png"
  - - meta
    - name: robots
      content: index,follow,noodp
  - - meta
    - name: googlebot
      content: index,follow
footer: MIT Licensed
---

# NFTs In Games

> 

Reviewer: random extra line break

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> NFTs are probably the easiest and most popular way to integrate Solana into your game.
> NFTs are objects that are saved on the Solana block chain and have a json metadata attached to them which can be used to safe attributes about the NFT. These are perfect for usage in games.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) are rapidly gaining popularity as a means of integrating Solana into games. These unique digital assets are stored on the Solana blockchain and come with a JSON metadata attached to them. The metadata allows developers to store important attributes and information about the NFT, such as its rarity or specific in-game capabilities. NFTs can be used in games to represent anything from weapons and armor to digital real estate and collectibles, providing a new level of ownership and scarcity for players.
```

> ## Allow only players from a collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Token gating with NFTs
```

> - You can for example only allow players that own an NFT of an NFT collection to enter the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using NFTs, you can gate access to a particular part of a game based on owning the NFT. This can form a more tightly-knit community within your game.
```

In [js](https://docs.solana.com/de/developing/clients/javascript-api) using the [Metaplex sdk](https://github.com/metaplex-foundation/js#readme) this would look like this:

```js

>     JSON.parse(
>       // For example '.config/solana/devnet.json'
>       fs.readFileSync("yourKeyPair.json").toString())
>     );
>     let keyPair = Keypair.fromSecretKey(decodedKey);
> 
>     const metaplex = Metaplex.make(connection).use(keypairIdentity(keyPair));
> 
>     const nfts = await metaplex
>       .nfts()
>       .findAllByOwner({ owner: wallet.publicKey })
> 
>     let collectionNfts = []
>     for (let i = 0; i < nfts.length; i++) {
>       if (nfts[i].collection?.address.toString() == collectionAddress.toString()) {
>         collectionNfts.push(nfts[i])
>       }
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON.parse(
  // For example '.config/solana/devnet.json'
  fs.readFileSync("yourKeyPair.json").toString())
);
let keyPair = Keypair.fromSecretKey(decodedKey);

const metaplex = Metaplex.make(connection).use(keypairIdentity(keyPair));

const nfts = await metaplex
  .nfts()
  .findAllByOwner({ owner: wallet.publicKey })

let collectionNfts = []
for (let i = 0; i < nfts.length; i++) {
  if (nfts[i].collection?.address.toString() == collectionAddress.toString()) {
    collectionNfts.push(nfts[i])
  }
}
```

```

> ## Nft Boosters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NFT Booster Packs
```

> Players could also gain certain bonuses by owning certain NFTs. For example a coin doubler NFT, which grants the player 2x coin as long as he has the NFT in his wallet. NFTs can also be burned. So there could be consumable NFTs as well. So a potion or spell in the inventory could be burned or transferred somewhere to give the character the effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to providing new revenue streams, NFTs can also be used to provide in-game benefits and bonuses to players. For instance, a player who owns a "coin doubler" NFT may receive double the amount of coins for as long as they hold the NFT in their wallet. Additionally, NFTs can be used as consumables, allowing players to use them to gain temporary effects such as potions or spells. Once consumed, the NFT is burned, and the effect is applied to the player's character. These innovative features of NFTs provide game developers with new opportunities to create unique gameplay experiences and reward players for their ownership of valuable assets on the Solana blockchain.
```

> [How to interact with tokens](../references/token#how-to-burn-tokens) <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[How to interact with tokens](../references/token#how-to-burn-tokens)

```
Please remove line breaks and use normal markdown line break

[NFTs](../references/nfts)

> ## Use metadata as stats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using NFT Metadata for Player Stats
```

> NFTs also have Metadata, which can be used for all kind of traits for game objects. For example an NFT could represent a game character and his traits Strength/Intelligence/Agility etc could directly influence how strong the character is in the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NFTs also have Metadata, which can be used for all kind of traits for game objects. For example an NFT could represent a game character and his traits Strength/Intelligence/Agility could directly influence how strong the character is in the game.
```

> This is how you can load nft metadata and their attributes using the metaplex sdk:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can load NFT metadata and their attributes using the metaplex sdk:
```

```js

>   import { Metaplex, keypairIdentity } from "@metaplex-foundation/js";
> 
>     JSON.parse(
>       // For example '.config/solana/devnet.json'
>       fs.readFileSync("yourKeyPair.json").toString())
>     );
>     let keyPair = Keypair.fromSecretKey(decodedKey);
> 
>     const metaplex = Metaplex.make(connection).use(keypairIdentity(keyPair));
>     const nfts = await metaplex.nfts().findAllByOwner({owner: keyPair.publicKey});
> 
>     const physicalDamage = 5;
>     const magicalDamage = 5;
> 
>     nfts.forEach(async nft => {
>       const metaData = await metaplex.nfts().load({metadata: nft});
> 
>         metaData.json.attributes.forEach(async attribute => {
>           if (attribute.trait_type == "Strength") {
>             physicalDamage += parseInt(attribute.value)
>           }
>           if (attribute.trait_type == "Int") {
>             magicalDamage += parseInt(attribute.value)
>           }
>         });
>     })
> 
>     console.log("Player Physical Damage: " + physicalDamage)
>     console.log("Player Magical Damage: " + magicalDamage)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { Metaplex, keypairIdentity } from "@metaplex-foundation/js";

  JSON.parse(
    // For example '.config/solana/devnet.json'
    fs.readFileSync("yourKeyPair.json").toString())
  );
  let keyPair = Keypair.fromSecretKey(decodedKey);

  const metaplex = Metaplex.make(connection).use(keypairIdentity(keyPair));
  const nfts = await metaplex.nfts().findAllByOwner({owner: keyPair.publicKey});

  const physicalDamage = 5;
  const magicalDamage = 5;

  nfts.forEach(async nft => {
    const metaData = await metaplex.nfts().load({metadata: nft});

      metaData.json.attributes.forEach(async attribute => {
        if (attribute.trait_type == "Strength") {
          physicalDamage += parseInt(attribute.value)
        }
        if (attribute.trait_type == "Int") {
          magicalDamage += parseInt(attribute.value)
        }
      });
  })

  console.log("Player Physical Damage: " + physicalDamage)
  console.log("Player Magical Damage: " + magicalDamage)
```

````

> ## Have NFTs own other NFTs (Fusion)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fusing NFTs Together
```

> The [Metaplex Fusion Trifle program](https://docs.metaplex.com/programs/fusion/overview) allows you to have NFTs own other NFTs. For example you could create a plant plot NFT and then use  to combine it with a water NFT and a seed NFT to create a Tomato NFT. (Tutorial coming soon)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Metaplex Fusion Trifle program](https://docs.metaplex.com/programs/fusion/overview) allows you to have NFTs own other NFTs. For example you could create a plant plot NFT and then use  to combine it with a water NFT and a seed NFT to create a Tomato NFT.
```

## Use 3D Nfts in a game

Every NFT metadata can also have a animation url. This url can contain a video, gif or a 3d file. These 3d files usually use the format .glb or .gltf and can dynamically be loaded into a game.

> For unity you can use this [GLTFast](https://github.com/atteneder/glTFast) package and in js for example this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For unity you can use the [GLTFast](https://github.com/atteneder/glTFast) package and in js the
```

[GLTFast JS](https://discoverthreejs.com/book/first-steps/load-models/). For reference a [NFT metadata with glb model](https://solscan.io/token/DzHPvbGzrHK4UcyeDurw2nuBFKNvt4Kb7K8Bx9dtsfn#metadata)

```c#
  var gltf = gameObject.AddComponent<GLTFast.GltfAsset>();
  gltf.url = nft.metadata.animationUrl;
```

```js
npm install --save-dev gltf-loader-ts

import { GltfLoader } from 'gltf-loader-ts';

let loader = new GltfLoader();
let uri = 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-Sample-Models/master/2.0/BoxTextured/glTF/BoxTextured.gltf';
let asset: Asset = await loader.load(uri);
let gltf: GlTf = asset.gltf;
console.log(gltf);
// -> {asset: {…}, scene: 0, scenes: Array(1), nodes: Array(2), meshes: Array(1), …}

let data = await asset.accessorData(0); // fetches BoxTextured0.bin
let image: Image = await asset.imageData.get(0) // fetches CesiumLogoFlat.png
```

## Customize NFTs with items and traits (Raindrops boots)

> With the [Raindrops Boots program](https://docs.raindrops.xyz/services/boots) you can for example have an adventure character which owns a sword and a helmet. When the Character NFT would be sold on a market place the other NFTs it owns would be sold as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the [Raindrops Boots program](https://docs.raindrops.xyz/services/boots) you can have an adventure character which owns a sword and a helmet. When the Character NFT would be sold on a market place the other NFTs it owns would be sold as well.
```

> 
> The possibilities are pretty much endless. (Tutorial coming soon)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## How to create an NFT collection

Reviewer: Let's put this under the NFT section instead of Gaming
